but I'm here to talk to you today about
why we built VPC and came out of ec2
classic how we built it some of the
underlying challenges in the physical
networking layer and what that maps into
in the virtual networking layer and how
this all translates into a broader
platform that we've built with a zero
dollar cost so I'm going to give the
folks in the back coming in just a
minute to take a seat I I believe that
they have the right to a full session we
will not be hosting QA today but if
there are questions please feel free to
come to us afterwards so in AWS we have
this notion of the cloud and in the
cloud as in any other traditional
on-premise ility you need a network if
that network is virtual or physical it
doesn't matter you need a network and in
our cloud we have services that offer
private endpoint connectivity private
endpoint connectivity means I have an IP
address that i can only get to privately
RFC 1918 that would be the 10 / 81 7212
192 ones 16 th 16 those private
non-routable not advertised address
spaces and in this private endpoint
space you see ec2 for virtual machines
you see elastic load balancing or elb
for a load balancing of those ec2
virtual machines we also have private
storage and although that does not have
a private endpoint space it does
attached to private virtual machines
that do have a private endpoint address
space and of course relational database
service or RDS and redshift so we have a
cloud that offers a number of services
that live in a private endpoint space
and will take on generally speaking non
RFC RFC 1918 address space ok just for
clarification to we do have a public
endpoint space for services like ec2
that do exist in the known RFC 1918
space so that you can hit them publicly
if your security groups allow but we've
got this network and of course
our customers have data centers you saw
it today and Andy's keynote vmware on
stage there is a movement from the
enterprise and other businesses to come
in to AWS and cloud doesn't happen
overnight on the whiteboard it does
super easy for us to visualize what does
it take to integrate my private data
center with Amazon's Cloud we simply
draw the data center on the Left we draw
the AWS cloud on the right powerpoint
engineering it's my favorite
unfortunately it's not that easy right
because you're going to have address
space that you're already provisioned in
your on prem data centers and you're
going to have this networking address
space that you've got to integrate how
many in the audience have actually
worked for companies that have actually
acquired other companies yes more than
half so this is a challenge of
integrating two different IP address
spaces is not yeah this is the first
problem that we faced in AWS more
specifically this is a big problem we
faced in Amazon the actual retailer
behind at eight of us in our own
business we lived in private data
centers for years that means we have
physical facilities that have physical
networking there may be a virtual
networking layer or two in there but how
do you transition that to Amazon Web
Services doesn't happen overnight
doesn't happen overnight for us we
understand in our customers it won't
happen overnight it's not easy more on
that in a minute when we started ec2 we
started what was what is now known as
ec2 classic the idea of one flat network
address space that is a 10 / 8 and the
earliest days it was easy it allowed us
to get the virtual machine service up
and running you could fire a virtual
machine up you would get some random IP
address here we're seeing 10 4412 dot
for you fire another one up your
customer orange your 1040 49
217 you don't know if that's 1044 / 16
could be 1044 12 / I'd have to do the
cider math here I don't know if I'm in
the same center block or not but I got
an IP address so minimum viable for us
allowed the virtual machine service
years ago to come up and say okay I got
IP connectivity the challenge was other
customers customer blue here comes up
next to you and well now you're ten 4412
dot five what's the challenge here I've
got another customer with an IP address
that's a / 32 offset for me they're next
door so no concept of contiguous
contiguous IP address blocks here this
is our challenge in ec two classic then
another custard cups comes up and he's
in the dot 12 subnet the point here is
that what we know today is ec2 classic
does not work and why it doesn't work is
because if you have a network in your on
prem data center and i promise you if
you're an enterprise you're going to be
bigger than a 16-bit network all right
but just a model and keep it simple
let's say you've got 192 168 / 16 in
your on prem your routing table says all
local routes have destination here in
the on prem that's good the developer
fires up that ec2 instance back in the
day the CR 18 XL for example and it
comes up 10 4412 dot for developer in an
office on corp network that comes back
into the on prem network of 192 168 16
says i need to ssh into this instance
let's assume it's a Linux instance so
mr. networking engineer says all right
i'll create a route destination for you
i'm going to say that all traffic
destination 1044 12 dot for little route
to AWS developers happy he or she gets
to ssh into that instance network
engineering not so happy they had to
take a trouble ticket but nonetheless
developers happy that's all that matters
now another customer comes up
10 4412 dot 5 next door that's not you
but you developer says I need another
instance they've got this cool service
called elb 10 4492 17 comes up and the
developer says now i need to ssh to this
one as well I haven't figured out auto
scaling yet I haven't figured out cloud
formation so I'm going to go in there by
hand and build it I need to ssh in as
well so the networking engineer says
i'll give you another / 32 route and
over time what ends up happening is
you've got a myriad of destination
routes going into your route tables how
many think the network engineer is happy
at this point both with the developer
and with us just be very clear right and
the challenge ends up being that as you
provision instances you have to go into
the route tables and as you delete
instances because right virtual machines
are commodities you probably should also
delete those rap table rules don't want
to orphan that out all now the network
engineer is very upset right now what
happens if the on-prem goes to 1044 / 16
and the data center range is different
unknown so singular route destinations
to AWS back in the day for ec2 classic
or what is now known as ECG classic
caused a great amount of operational
burden on our developers more
specifically our networking engineers so
we said hmm let's step back and find a
way to give every customer the private
network that they've come to know in on
Prem this is the evolution of how we
move from ec2 classic into VPC and the
motivation as to why we needed to make
this look more like a traditional
physical network but we're going to do
it virtually so the requirements on this
was the customer needs to be able to
define their cider blocks if you're in a
1044 / 16 address space and you want to
look like a 1045 / 16 address space in
AWS you totally can you get to define
the cider block in AWS as is that is the
inherent property of VPC
the singular / 32 destination routes
that the network engineer how to deal
with that's that's that's nonsense
that's that's a recipe for disaster from
security perspective and an operational
burden let alone if you have thousands
of routes I'm not sure the router you
know does it does it handle it at scale
so we need to aggregate all of the
destination traffic to AWS and give you
a way to simply slay say this / 16
address or smaller has destination to
AWS or multiple / whatever networks
destination to AWS we need to be able to
aggregate all these routes so you don't
have singular destination routes and
finally we said okay most importantly
for the success of not only VPC but of
AWS we got to conform to existing
network designs we have to be able to
play into what you the customer knows
today we can't tell you what the right
way to do is is this is networking is
has been around for 20 30 years we have
to conform with what exists today so we
went to the white board we drew up the
on prem box we drew out the AWS cloud we
put the arrow in we're done right now
now what we did is we said okay we're
going to bring in a new network it's
going to be called virtual private cloud
VPC for short i say it short-handed so
many times that i have to actually stop
and think about the acronym and if
you've been an AWS any time you as well
will but what did we do we said okay
let's go back to that whiteboard the on
prem is 192 168 / 16 those routes are
going to stay here they're going to
route local they don't need to egress
anywhere else now developers want to
look at AWS or maybe we're making on a
strategic migration whatever the case
may be your networking team or maybe
possibly your developers inadvertently
right have selected 172 31 / 16 as their
network in AWS so VPC allows us to
actually define for the first time ever
a private network now this is not a
novel concept PPC has been around since
2009 ballpark seven years but we're
going back in time to see why we did
this and how we did it and the
underlying challenges we faced and so we
said our
we need to now give you a way to
integrate your network of 192 168 with
172 31 and we did this by way of edge
points the visuals here are what you
might see as a VG w and a cg w alright
this applies potentially VPN it also
could apply a different type of edge of
direct connect in this case with a lock
we indicate VPN but we have to have some
physical networking capability to
integrate the two if we're going to give
you this we're going to bring you in we
need to let you integrate via VPN or
possibly circuit integration known as
direct connect more on that later and as
we bring you into the on Prem now that
you've got your own private network you
get your own subnets so now you get to
start to you get to carve out with VPC
back in the day a network that might
look like yours with the customer IP
address you want with the range you want
that fits into your existing design this
is what we work towards as we evolve dc2
and realize that private networking was
so important and of course we went to
multiple subnets and now we can do
things like hey ec2 I want to map one
subnet to AZ one and one subnet to AZ
too and I want to load balance across
those and I get built in active active
redundancy this is the basis for
enabling the other services now keep in
mind that VPC is private to you and only
you your network is not shared with
another customers network and it's
actually not even shared with another
network in your own account it is quite
possible in the VPC model that we've
designed to allow for you to clone that
VPC and i use the word clone with quotes
around it you can create one or more V
pcs next to it with the same address
block now just side note here why would
we do that there's value to developers
and having v pcs that look the same if
they're doing QA environments dev
regression tests etc right but the
capability is there and of course as you
as your developers spin up instances or
your infrastructure people do depending
on what the workload is you see that you
get to place your ec2 instance into
of subnets I also keep in mind that we
allow you to privately statically assign
private IP address we allow you to take
an IP address via DHCP which is serviced
from VP see behind the scenes as part of
the virtual network underneath or you
can obviously assign a public IP out of
our public IP pool either ephemeral or
elastic and of course this is just
virtual networking so for the first 15
minutes you might be looking at me
saying you've just gone backwards in
time why do we do this well the reason
is because we want to help you
understand how we built VPC to scale so
in our world a subnet if we think about
the physical layer here we have to talk
about our terminology and virtual
translate it to what you will know in
physical physical a VLAN translates in
our world to a subnet okay VPC
translates to a vrf so you can have
multiple vrf s in your account are
multiple V pcs but what happens if we
think if we say that a subnet is a VLAN
and a VPC is a vrf that's great for one
customer it might be great for 4,000
customers right what do we do with a
million customers okay now here's the
real engineering here's the challenge we
have to face in our data centers in the
physical networking layer in our virtual
net we layer layer if we said that a
VLAN is a subnet and by VLAN definition
you get 4096 theoretical 12-bit and size
how does that how do we get more than
4,000 subnets way to figure that out and
if we said that a VPC is a vrf how do we
have any type of large commercial router
that does anything more than a few
thousand dr f's how do we scale this out
let's back up if we say that publicly we
have over a million customers in DC in a
to AWS and if we assume that all million
customers at least have one vp see how
many vrf SAR we talking about here a
million we have a look at the hardware
what commercial hardware do we bring in
to do this back in the day we have to
map that physical infrastructure to
chool and of course there's only a fixed
ratio of vlans to VR f's and networking
engineers don't like the large number of
vlans so back in that physical layer you
have a big router go out and get any of
the commercial routers I won't name
names but you can just imagine the big
ones that will cook you dinner and
probably make your breakfast large take
up lots of rackspace they have a data
plane they have a smaller control plane
that control plane is driven by a
traditional cpu with software that you
know networking gear is the same as any
traditional server physical server it's
just got a different hardware interface
now we say all right there is this
control plane to data plane interaction
through a small bandwidth pipe now these
data planes by the way networking
companies freely go extra lengths to
make these data planes perform very well
right you want to move megabits gigabits
terabits through data planes got to
perform so custom a6 all the hardware
you can all the majors are doing this
and then you want to pair it up because
when that one big router fails you want
to go to the second one in the H a pair
and then of course you've got h a
communication between the two and you're
putting a lot of stress on these routers
and so we have this challenge of how do
we get a lot of the RFS and by the way
if we say a million today what does it
look like in five years we don't know
right we just don't so we have to scale
linearly and we had to look at how do we
do this in a way where we're not having
to buy large Hardware off commercial
banks to do this in a way we can get the
price to 0 that's the challenge right
how do we keep the price 0 for you how
do we drive that price to a place that's
it is feasible for you let's give you an
example of some of the challenges we
faced as we looked into the details so
let's say an average router
configuration is about 50 characters in
size let's say for us to configure up a
VPC in that physical network layer it's
10 lines say there's four subnets on
average to public to private just for
okay let's say it config per subnet it's
five we're now in 220 across the four
and if we are looking at trying to scale
2,000 V pcs for our customer base that
average config file for the router is
three megs so it turns out that in our
testing in the labs as we built the pc
out years ago that file of three
megabytes took five minutes to parse
let's put this in perspective you click
on the AWS console you expect your
change to be immediate so that routes
take effect like that how do we do it at
2,000 V pcs if it's going to take five
minutes how do we go to a million right
how do we do a billion packets so we
needed commodity hardware that we
controlled the big virtual the big
routers we're talking about are built by
a handful of commercial companies some
of these advanced features that get you
the size and scale you need are only a
few in size are offered by a few and the
interoperability between the companies
because you want to diversify right
potentially blast radius considerations
if I bring big routers in I want to do a
couple different companies
interoperability diminishes
significantly as you go up in advanced
feature sets so let's step back here a
bit and talk about capacity we've talked
about how many V PCs were trying to
design for how this translates into the
routers that have to process the
configuration files to take effect now
let's talk in terms of ec2 let's say I
have an H a pair on the left and I have
an H a pair on the right the pair on the
Left gets me about 40 ec2 instances and
the pair on the right gets me about 40
ec2 instances that means i can put 40 i
have 40 ec2 instances tied to one router
pair and 42 another now customer a says
all right well we're going to come
online with three ec2 instances and we
allocate into the cap pool of 40 we've
got 37 left we have three slotted in
there and the second thing is customer
becomes in and says well I only need 2
i'm a small company i'm testing things
out customer she comes in we load
balance
them into the router pair on the left
they've got for instance is on and on
and on and customer d brings and more
virtual machines until customer a says
you know what business is expanding we
like AWS we want more and as we
horizontally scale here customer eat
comes online he's like I'm just trying
it out and so these customers keep
bringing virtual machines in and the
problem we have is we don't we have a
placement problem your virtual machine
is going to go into a router pair be
tied to that but we only have a physical
capacity for so much and by the way we
don't know your growth in fact when g
comes online they blow out the router
growth capacity but i still have slots
for 25 for more virtual machines that's
not effective right we're spending money
on physical hardware but we're not
getting the utilization on the router
pair that we want and what happens when
Company B goes in and says alright we're
just going to we want to be in the VPC
on the router pair on the right and
we've now run out of capacity we're
using we've now taken the virtual
machine capacity pool on that router
pair 240 what do we do we've run out of
space in our vp see this is the
challenge of how we have to have a VPC
mapping to a router pair what the ec2
instance is coming into it right so what
we said is from an implementation
perspective we need to scale the
millions and our customer needs to be
amazoncom it's the only customer we need
to focus on james said it last night we
design our routers for one customer only
amazon any server anywhere in a region
can host the instance attached to any
subnet of epc the capacity model you
just saw with the h a pair says hey i'm
going to be able to host any instance in
any v pc but i also need to be able to
restrict which instances you're getting
to you got to be able to only get in
those v pcs that you own and are part of
so from a concept perspective how do we
do this so yes we have amazon we have
amazon has data centers and yes we have
physical hosts in those those physical
hosts are hypervisors they've identified
here in white with server IP addresses
of 0
easier top 4 etc those are physical IPS
on the physical network in our data
center so we're talking about
hypervisors running the ec2 virtual
machines that take on physical IP
addresses now what we're looking at is
how do we you put a virtual machine on
those hypervisors are you going to be on
the physical Network are you going to be
on that virtual network virtual network
and that's what we're showing here how
it works ec2 instance blue comes in a
customer blue sari comes in with 1000 to
gets placed on hypervisor 192 168 0 32
more instances come on line to two
different hypervisors with a dot one dot
3 and 0 dot one dot 4 hopefully these
are in a different a Z right so now more
customers come online notice that I've
got the same IP address being used
between customers green blue and grey
earlier I said that V PCs were private
to you and your account that you could
have multiple V pcs with the same cider
block they would be isolated away from
each other customers to customers and
two different accounts could have V pcs
of the same cider block and again be
isolated from each other the virtual
networking layer we're building here on
top of these physical hosts has to
accommodate this fact I have a virtual
IP 1000 to I'm customer blue customer
green is on the same host with me and
also 1000 to so how do we actually
ensure that blue gets to blue only
virtual machines and green only gets to
green the answer is in a mapping service
this is the heart and soul of VPC if
you've not seen this this will explain
how we actually get layer 2 and layer 3
Ethernet destination routes to each
virtual machine and how that translates
back to subnets so what happens is the
mapping service is a distributed look up
all right it will map the VPC of an ec2
instance to the physical server that
it's on the physical host I'm going to
be very specific host here hypervisor
alright so let's take a look layer 2
i've got an ec2 instance in subnet a
that needs to get to another ec2
instance also in subnet a thats layer 2
how do we do it well from the basics of
ethernet 1000 two goes to its which it
doesn't ARP it says hey who's got 1000 3
the switch responds with the flood and
says oh the ARP requests out there 1000
3 is on my switch I've got it 1000 3
responds acts the request 02 knows where
it is and now it can talk directly to
1003 that is a physical network in VPC
the virtual network the mapping service
acts as that element between the the
origination and the destination what
happens is 1000 to dumps out on the
operating system it says hey I need to
get to 1000 3 i'm going to arp that
request it dumps it though to the
physical host we don't want to change
the operating system right same drivers
same everything you import VMS whatever
you do you shouldn't be doing any
network fun inside the osu should
delegate down to the hypervisor or lower
and that's what we do server the host
the hypervisor with 1920 192 168 0 dot
three turns of the mapping services says
hey I've got an ARP request out here for
1000 34 customer blue where is it that
is the map and the map says hold on I
acknowledge he's actually on the host in
the bottom right 168 14 so the mapping
service knows that customer blue 1000 to
on host 0 dot 3 is trying to get to
customer blue 0 dot 3 on host 1 dot 4
and he tells them exactly how to get
there on the physical network so what
we're watching is the VPC or the virtual
network dump its request into the
physical network and the mapping service
resolves the to 1000 to says thank you
very much and now I can actually issue
my lair to request again I want to talk
to this other virtual machine in the
same subnet I'm going to send it a
packet and we're going to actually
capture
the packet we're going to send the
request and then we're going to
encapsulate with information specific to
the VPC along with source and
destination rules for the physical
Network and host 03 sends us
encapsulated packet over to host one dot
for host one dot for is going to on an
onion capsulate bat d encapsulate now
he's not just going to accept the
request though that'd be too easy right
there has to be some verification we
have to watch out for the potential of
crosstalk between two VP sees the host
is going to turn back to the mapping
services say hey i just got a request
from physical hosts here about three for
a virtual machine running on there for
customer blue are we good is the source
good and the mapping service is going to
say yep and the request is going to go
through the host will allow that traffic
that is how we perform the pc isolation
now take a look at customer Gray's 1000
for he wants to get to 1000 three I
don't see a 1000 three out here do you
guys which 1000 3d you see right that's
gray so the mapping service says nope
sorry denied this prevents crosstalk
this is what allows for VPC isolation
the mapping service handles the source
request tells it where the destination
is the communication goes through the
physical layer and then the destination
says hold on before I accept that
request let me turn back to the mapping
service and if it's good if source is
verified then will allow the traffic
through again if we have 1000 for dumped
its traffic 20 dot for and he wants to
go destination blue if we play this out
1000 dot for isn't hosting any blue
instances and the mapping service again
denies if we assume somehow that a valid
mapping was attempted we can we could
try to use it so packets cannot and will
not flow unless all parties involved
source destination and mapping service
agree on where those interfaces are and
as we play this out
physical host 1 dot 4 is going to turn
back to the mapping service and say hold
on I'm getting requests from gray on
that host over there am I good mapping
service raises an alarm instead sorry
that's invalid again VPC isolation
through a source destination ack process
on the mapping service and again if this
occurs an alarm is raised internally on
us now that's assuming to virtual
machines want to talk to the same subnet
how do we get from a virtual machine in
one subnet to a virtual machine in
another subnet this is layer three this
is general IP routing in this scenario
zero dot to virtual machine has to talk
to the ethernet switch and arps out and
says hey I'm trying to get 2013 but
first where's my gateway zero dot one is
the gateway Ethernet such switch
identifies that it says awesome let's
get that to the gateway gateway cakes it
and says all right destination requests
for 13 it comes back that is what we do
source go through a gateway to get to
the destination let's model that VPC now
I've got a virtual machine and subnet
one is it gets a virtual machine at
subnet to in later to when we're all in
the same subnet we just go to the
mapping service and back and then
directly to the host it's pretty pretty
directly coupled right we want a virtual
machine to jump from one subject to
another now he says hey I need to get to
some incense but first I need to
identify where my gateway is I got to
tell the Gateway where I'm going he says
all right your gateway is here the
mapping service delivers back not the
address of the destination but the
address of the gateway comes back to the
instance the instance then dumps the
request of the physical host who goes to
the map and the map comes back and says
okay I know where you're at I'm going to
create the packet I'm going to
encapsulate the VPC information we're
going to then encapsulate further the
physical host information and we're
going to send that directly so there's a
layer of indirection here for layer 3 we
have to go to the map first we have to
find the gateway
then we have to go to the destination
similar concepts everywhere else packet
encapsulation for VPC that encapsulation
includes the VPC information so we can
actually say is this a valid source or
not it also includes the physical host
information so we know how to operate on
the physical network in the data center
again though you got to come from the
right source you have to be valid so the
host turns the mapping services says
once again is this a valid request it's
customer blue I'm allowed we're good and
there we go that is how VPC
fundamentally works in the layer between
virtual networking to physical
networking for virtual machines talking
in the same subjects and virtual
machines wanting to talk in different
subnets in the same VPC layer 2 is in
the same subnet layer 3 is in two
different subnets now all of this has to
happen in real time right I'm very slow
presenting this but you can't have it
operate that slow this needs to be
instantaneous zero latency we're talking
about a single packet that's got to get
through multiplied by a factor of
billion or more how do we make this fast
zero latency as the goal the answer is
caching we can't continually hit the map
service in real time right it's not a
real time service it's a distributed
service might be millisecond response
times but we need near zero the answer
is that we build cash pools on the
physical hosts from the mapping service
imagine the idea of us decentralizing
the map service with the rules that are
specific to that host we're only going
to give you the information on the host
that makes sense and why is that oops
sorry why is that because when I'm on a
host and I need to get to the
destination the cash should only know
about the areas i can get to it
guarantees a 100-percent hit rate in the
cache I'm not throwing seventy percent
success I look there's no gray on the
host at 03 right we all can see that I
don't have any gray virtual machines the
cache has no knowledge of grey virtual
machines it only has knowledge of blue
and green
because that's every single request that
goes through that cash needs to be a
hundred percent hit rate and that is how
we get zero latency on VPC alright and
what this allows us to do if we kind of
backup as we started this with a very
flat network in DC to right and then we
said we need to break this up we need to
privatize the network we need to give
you the capability of private network
endpoints full control over your
networking between your on Prem and AWS
and it allows for this virtual machines
can come up with fixed or dhcp based
addresses multiple subnets you get to
map those subnets to the availability
zones virtual machine running at 10 dot
007 getting to 1000 9 in the same subnet
does a layer to request in the virtual
networking layer known as VPC and
through the mapping service to you it's
transparent it was real time but what
she really did is went through the cache
which was coming back from the mapping
service with a source destination
verification on it if you want to get to
another subnet this is how it all plays
out you're doing a layer 3 request to
the destination through the Gateway with
the same source destination verification
there is this idea of I need to egress
traffic out some edge that edge is a way
for me to get somewhere be it of what we
call a virtual private gateway or VG w
who's destination is some other network
some physical or maybe an IG w so if we
expand this further and get outside of
what we're doing in the VPC and getting
into another network we find that we
actually go through edges and we
encapsulate the packets the same way we
say here's the actual virtual networking
information encapsulated with the VPC
information and capsulated with the
physical network information and have
some type of edge allow me to egress
traffic so when you're tumbling packets
through that VPN tunnel destination to
your v GW with this customer gateway the
CGW on the other side what you're really
doing is going through an edge the same
holds true for
I GW the Internet gateway as well as
direct connect or DX or short and the
way the edge works in VPC is it's the
same setup the physical hypervisor hosts
have map caches the mapping services in
place the virtual network says hey
listen I'm on physical host 0 dot 4 I
need to get to I've got a virtual
machine on me that needs to get to also
0 dot 4 and I'm going to go to a
destination of 172 16 / 16 that's like
my on-prem so I've got a virtual machine
that wants to route traffic to the
on-prem the edge that V GW internally
looks just like another physical host to
us in this case it's for dot 3 so we
send the traffic down to the physical
host we encapsulate it with the virtual
networking information of the VPC
information and the physical network
information we send it to the edge and
the traffic egress is now as I mentioned
earlier there are three types of edges
there's a VPN based edge or what we call
a virtual private gateway or V GW for
short packet and capsulated information
goes to this for dot 3 edge you know
what the edge does its job is to
translate amazon proprietary information
about VPC to stuff that the real world
understands in this case with this edge
it's translating to ipsec specific
information for the VPN tunnel so we do
packet encapsulation and strip out the
VPC information we do not egress
Amazon's network with proprietary VPC
information we put it back on the
physical networks in the world
encapsulated with the information
specific to them case in point if we
look at direct connect this is a circuit
this is us going to a direct connect
facility then destination one or more on
prem we also send requests down to the v
GW for a direct connect right you've got
your v pc you want to send traffic to
the on prem you route it to the VG w the
v GW is really an edge and the edges job
is to not only look like something local
and familiar to you and vp see that we
saw in layer 2 and layer 3
but then to also put 80 to 1 q VLAN tag
information on it for the real world so
the edge is actually an adapter or a map
if you will and then finally the third
edge is the internet gateway or the igw
this is the border as it lives on Amazon
all right same thing it's just an edge
its job is to translate between a very
proprietary virtual network on our side
and a physical world out there except
one difference here we're not doing
IPSec encapsulation we're not doing VLAN
tag encapsulation what we actually have
to do is make it look like you're coming
from a public IP so if you've ever
wondered how those elastic ip's work we
take your source information and egress
at that point in time with the eip or
potentially the manage NAT or the net
you know if mrow IP but public or static
IP and public and that is what the edge
does at the Igwe its job is a translate
not only the specific information VPC so
the real world but it also needs to then
map into that public IP address so we
can talk on the Internet so to recap VPC
not only handles inner subnet traffic
and sudden that's a subnet but it also
has to talk on different destinations
i'm going to egress over VPN i'm going
to egress over direct connect i'm going
to egress out the border on AWS via igw
we have edges in our mapping service to
handle all of this and they look just
like any other destination so brief
diversion the hardware we built for our
routers so yeah okay penguin we talked
earlier about physical routers going to
scale with us and how that wasn't going
to work and how we needed to build
commodity hardware that's scaled right
that just looked and felt like a
traditional server and in our world we
built this the device is known as a
Blackfoot and it's based on linux that's
the penguin well turns out that the
Blackfoot penguin why they named the
device Blackfoot is because
linux penguin the team that did this is
based in Cape Town in South Africa and
there's a spot in Cape Town where
penguins exist and the penguin in Cape
Town South Africa is indigenous to that
region and it's called the Blackfoot so
a little fun fact about Amazon is that
yes these devices we build are called
Blackfeet blackfoots technically based
on the team in cape town who built that
in the early days and we've actually
named one of our headquarter buildings
this is the actual photograph of it in
Seattle in the just outside the South
Lake Union campus known as Blackfoot it
turns out a lot of product development
happens here so just wanted to bypass
some of the dry networking get back into
a little color on Amazon so how much
does VPC cost zero how much you guys
paying for subnets anybody how much are
we up charging you prefer your network
on an instance this is the design goal
right we can't get to zero if we buy
really expensive large commercial
hardware and by the way it's not that we
are adverse to it it's that you have to
scale in ways that they've never had to
do because we have a lot of customers
right as opposed to a singular customer
in a single data center and so if we buy
those at large scale we're going to pay
money and we have to actually pass that
back on we don't want to do that we want
to drive price down and make it cost
affordable for customers so I would bet
I get no one who understands what the
state is anybody of a venture what this
data is turns out this is Black Friday
for the year 2010 so why is it one was
black friday last friday the
twenty-fifth so any amazon com black
friday what do you think happens for us
pretty busy right what do we decide to
do on november 10th 2010 we actually
shut down the last physical host that
ran the retail commerce site amazon com
that's the day we fully went in one
hundred percent on retail to ec2
so why is it really important because
I'm up here talking about VPC in virtual
networking translation to physical
networks egressing on edges all this
stuff right scale but we're talking
about real commerce traffic on Blackfoot
are on Black Friday just five six years
ago VPC works if we could survive that
and we've survived black Fridays and if
this is the last day we've done then
we've done it right we've built VPC the
way it needs to be at the core so just a
side note to come back to the amazon com
story about customer trust in VPC
broader picture we talked about lower
level things on routing subnets etc VPC
itself is a platform and we can't forget
that right as a platform we allow you to
build subnets and the subnets go into
private networks known as V pcs we allow
you to egress traffic in and out of
those networks with the edges we now as
a platform allow you to bring in other
private endpoint services so bringing it
back to the start of this session when
we said those relational database
services and that redshift cluster
coming in private the VPC that we talked
about ends up creating its own platform
that platform enables other services and
as a platform yes we give you VPN and
direct connect we talked about that but
now we build other things on top of it
hey I want security groups stateful
firewalls that do / 32 filtering for
both inbound in it and outbound traffic
it gave us the ability to control
perimeter traffic with network acl's at
the subnets truthfully most of our
customers do security groups because
they have longer history than network
ACLs but you have the option to do
either one or both right as a platform
VPC gives you the ability to get to
routing tables it gives you the it gives
us the ability to place not only one but
more network interfaces on those ec2
instances known as elastic network
interfaces right so as a platform as
we've developed over time we've been
able to get more feature-rich and what
we've been able to offer back to the
other services side out
elastic network interfaces you get more
you can multi you can actually add more
based on the instance type if you didn't
know that and yes you can multi home
them all right one of the latest
advances in VPC in the past year had
been on s3 endpoints so there's this big
movement from our customers who say hey
PPC awesome you guys built at six seven
years ago thank you very much we have
private endpoint connectivity but some
of your services have a longer history
here than ec2 as three is the one right
and as three lives in the public
endpoint space so here's the challenge
our customers bring to us all right I've
got this instance that's private at ec2
in a VPC that needs to talk to s3 I have
to get to the internet because s3 is a
public endpoint service had been right
exclusively and that the engineering on
it means if I'm at a private subnet I
have to throw all my traffic through at
the time NAT instances everybody
remember NAT instances how many people
were happy to see managing that come
along yeah the whole room right I don't
even need to ask that question yeah so
the challenges you're literally burning
all of this data through bad instances
just to get to s3 its kind of waste yeah
man is that helps you out there right
the other option was you put those
instances in a public subnet so you're
already on the public endpoint space and
you don't have to go through a net layer
yeah that's good not wrong way to do it
so what we did was we said all right
customers need to make s3 looklocal they
need to make it look private there's a
big movement by the way in the customer
base we see with more services that are
in the public endpoint space customers
are asking us to bring them to private
endpoint space you know so we look at
all those requests and you know we build
road maps based on customers so s3
endpoints came this is private
connectivity into s3 from your VPC your
s3 buckets looklocal in our world
they're just another edge your virtual
machine goes out to s3 through an edge
if I can actually get there yep
so we talked about three edges earlier
we built the fourth for s3 and if we
build more private endpoint connectivity
for public endpoint services like s3 you
should expect them to come as edges as
well and they work the same right except
this time we make the edge own the
bucket information so I've got a virtual
machine on the virtual network that has
a physical server underneath it it needs
to get to s3 as 170 216 that is an edge
and we send the request through the map
service again it goes to the physical
layer we encapsulate the packets and we
send it to the edge so our private
endpoint connectivity for s3 goes
through an edge just like direct connect
VPN and Internet gateway do this time we
have to encapsulate different we have to
encapsulate with VPC and we made s3 look
like its own VPC endpoint to do it and
we put that information in the green
here so we encapsulate that and then we
encapsulate physical network information
but this time we're talking public
endpoint spaces because s3 is a public
endpoint service so the edge does all
the traffic for you locally makes it
look local and then does the translation
as an edge to go to the public endpoint
space we didn't change as three like we
didn't really privatize it we just built
edges to be able to accept source
traffic from your VPC and make it look
local so that you didn't have to put
nats manage Nats or put your virtual
machines and public subnets to get there
right and then of course when we did
that now that we have an edge we
actually introduce a new concept giving
you the ability to secure access to
those buckets via policies so now with
an edge we've advanced from where we
were with direct connect VPN and I GW
and add an additional layer of security
right it's an additional layer and by
definition of policy i can say i'm going
to allow access from here to the s3
bucket or deny in this case we actually
define the resource of the bucket
everything in it and then we have a
policy here that actually says i'm going
to go ahead and deny
if you're not this source VPC so the
really cool thing here is that the edges
got smarter when we did private endpoint
connectivity for s3 and you can secure
access that's super important because
you may have multiple V pcs in your
account and you only want one to access
at s3 bucket right prod VPC dev VPC QA v
pc you only want prod traffic going to
prod bucket that's what we're talking
about here by the way that's the
customer use case okay so in the end our
challenge in building VPC was easy you
know the simple complex balance if we go
super simple for our customer base then
the most advanced networking engineers
won't be happy there feature sets
limited but if we go complex while we
satisfy the most hardcore diehard of the
network engineers and be flexible for
them those out there who need to don't
really have the cci ease or don't have
the networking expertise are left in the
or left behind so what we did is built
flexible model you can go as simple as
you want or as complex as you want and
we allow you to go into full advanced
features on v pc or keep it simple with
like a default PPC the default VPC was
introduced a few years ago and its job
was to make networking simple I don't
need to think about this and by the way
there's some type of movement out there
we're sensing I I don't know how long
the days are where people really need to
think about traditional networks are
they're here for you for some time right
but the question we ask is do you really
need to think about your network if you
can just get somewhere do you care where
you came from right so in a default VPC
we spin you up with 172 31 / 16 and you
don't think about it you provision the
instances into the subnets it's already
there it's at if i recall it's a to
subnet the public to subnet in the
private and it allows you to provision
and it makes it feel like ec2 classic
there was some value to ECG classic by
the way in the fact that i could just
provision virtual machines i get an IP
address and i don't have to think about
networking so default VPC is an attempt
to get back there but keep you in a
private endpoint space and that private
endpoint space is of course represented
here with subnets and the overall r / r
VPC and it brings in the private
connectivity so we're ec2 classic fell
short default PPC's job is to say we
brought you here we got you into private
endpoint space we give you the features
you want but we made it simple for you
not to have to worry about so much now i
will tell you most enterprises are not
using default v pcs we understand that
we have to deal with the both ends of
the spectrum here okay simple and but
limited for some complex for others but
flexible right and that is what we're
trying to deal with here in bpc so i
realize that people have lines to get to
i'm going to go ahead and recommend some
sessions for you if you've taken a
chance to uh there's a spelling type of
their account i recommend the deep dive
on direct connect in VPN netflix this
session is also great if you miss them
be sure to check them on the AWS youtube
channel please remember to complete your
evaluations sorry for those who are
actually taking photos i'm not going to
shy i got it so please be sure to fill
out your evaluation we love customer
feedback I'm going to let everybody take
this guy's enjoy thank you so much